---
title: "Personal Website"
description: "The website you are on right now"
tags: ["astro", "typescript", "css"]
date: 2024-06-13
---

I recently redeveloped my website using the Astro static site generation framework. My previous website had been a Vue.js single-page application, which was not a great fit for a static site since the interaction responsiveness benefits typically associated with SPAs were not necessary here. The main reasons I had chosen to use Vue previously were that I wanted to get more experience with it, and I had not found a static site generator that I liked using. When I initially became aware of Astro over a year ago, I had been interested in using it for my personal website, but I only got around to rebuilding my site after I finished my last year of college.

My website is relatively simple, consisting of a single layout, a homepage, a few content collections with associated dynamic routes, and content for those collections written using Markdown. I have not used some of the more complex features of Astro, but the responsiveness of its dev server and its balance of ease of use versus control have made it very enjoyable to use. It has also removed a few SPA-related issues with my website, like the soft 404 problem, that would otherwise require server-side rendering, and has made it dramatically easier to author new content compared to my old JSON-based methods. I'd definitely be interested in looking into Astro further, but for now it has been a great tool for making me actually want to update my website again.

I recently added some visual effects to my website using CSS, most notably the shimmering source code effect in the background of each page. You can see the full implementation (as of writing) [on GitHub](https://github.com/CreatedBySeb/website/blob/00b0711bc46bde891911806a9bf89a1f1d556804/src/layouts/Layout.astro), but in brief, once the page loads it grabs the `innerHTML` of the body and then applies some RegExp-based cleaners to cut down on extraneous whitespace, data attributes and SVG code, and adds it to a `<pre>` element. This element is then styled using CSS so that it appears in the background of the page and uses `background-clip: text` to apply a shifting `linear-gradient` from the `background` to the text, leveraging `background-position`, which uses the theme colour of the page (via CSS variables like other elements) with varying opacity. I also use height and width to constrain the element so it fits the page, rather than arbitrarily growing it to fit the text in the element. I think this creates quite a nice effect that varies with each page, but doesn't distract too much from the content.
